---
title: "[Paper Review] Autonomous-Racing"
excerpt: "Optimization-Based Autonomous Racing of 1:43 Scale RC Cars"
categories:
  - paperreview
---
## Abstraction

This paper describes autonomous racing of RC race cars based on mathematical optimization. Using a dynamical model of the vehicle, control inputs are computed by receding horizon based controllers, where the objective is to maximize progress on the track subject to the requirement of staying on the track and avoiding opponents. Two different control formulations are presented. The first controller employs a two-level structure, consisting of a path planner and a nonlinear model predictive controller (NMPC) for tracking. The second controller combines both tasks in one nonlinear optimization problem (NLP) following the ideas of contouring control. Linear time varying models obtained by linearization are used to build local approximations of the control NLPs in the form of convex quadratic programs (QPs) at each sampling time. The resulting QPs have a typical MPC structure and can be solved in the range of milliseconds by recent structure exploiting solvers, which is key to the real-time feasibility of the overall control scheme. Obstacle avoidance is incorporated by means of a high-level corridor planner based on dynamic programming, which generates convex constraints for the controllers according to the current position of opponents and the track layout. The control performance is investigated experimentally using 1:43 scale RC race cars, driven at speeds of more than 3 m/s and in operating regions with saturated rear tire forces (drifting). The algorithms run at 50 Hz sampling rate on embedded computing platforms, demonstrating the real-time feasibility and high performance of optimization-based approaches for autonomous racing.

## I. INTRODUCTION

Autonomous car racing is a challenging task for automatic control systems due to the need for handling the vehicle close to its stability limits and in highly nonlinear operating regimes. In addition, dynamically changing racing situations require advanced path planning mechanisms with obstacle avoidance executed in real-time. Fast dynamics constrain the sampling time to be in the range of a few tens of milliseconds at most, which severely limits the admissible computational complexity of the algorithms. This situation is even more challenging if the autonomous algorithms shall be executed on simple, low-power embedded computing platforms.

In this paper, we investigate optimization-based control strategies for the task of racing an autonomous vehicle around a given track. We focus on methods that can be implemented to run in real-time on embedded control platforms, and present experimental results using 1:43 scale Kyosho dnano RC race cars that achieve top speeds of more than 3 m/s, which corresponds to an upscaled speed of about 465 km/h. For high performance, the proposed controllers operate the car at its friction limits, far beyond the linear region of what is typically used in other autonomous driving systems. This challenging task is generally mastered only by expert drivers with lots of training. In contrast, our approach requires merely a map of the track and a dynamical model of the car; in particular, we use a bicycle model with nonlinear tire forces, neglecting load transfer and coupling of lateral and longitudinal slip.

Two model-based control schemes are presented in this paper. First, we describe a hierarchical two-level control scheme consisting of a model-based path planner generating feasible trajectories for an underlying nonlinear model predictive control (NMPC) trajectory tracking controller. Our second approach combines both path planning and path following into one formulation, resulting in one NMPC controller that is based on a particular formulation known from contouring control [1], [2]. The objective of both approaches is to maximize the progress on the track, measured by a projection of the vehicle’s position onto the center line of the track. Linear time varying (LTV) models obtained by linearization are employed to construct atractable convex optimization problem to be solved at each sampling time. Efficient interior point solvers for embedded systems, generated by FORCES [3], [4], are employed to solve the resulting optimization problems, which makes the approaches presented in this paper amenable for use on embedded systems.

We furthermore demonstrate that both schemes can easily be extended to incorporate obstacle avoidance by adjusting the constraints of the resulting optimization problems according to the racing situation. With this mechanism in place, the avoidance trajectory is optimized to yield maximal overall progress, which translates into highly effective overtaking maneuvers that are automatically planned and executed.

### A. Related Work

Safe autonomous driving at moderate speeds has been demonstrated for example in the context of Autonomous Highway Systems (AHS) in 1997 [5] within the Californian PATH programme, or in contests such as the DARPA Grand Challenge in 2005 [6] and the Urban Challenge in 2007 [7] by numerous research groups. In these projects, the main goal was do develop autonomous driving systems for public traffic situations. Autonomous racing has received less attention, but impressive advances have been made recently also in this discipline. For instance, a fully autonomous Audi TTS has been reported to race at high speeds in [8] using a trajectory tracking controller, which follows a pre-computed trajectory. However, to the best knowledge of the authors, fully automatic racing including obstacle avoidance in dynamic racing situations has not been demonstrated yet in practice.

From a control perspective, the fundamental building blocks for automatic racing can be grouped into three categories: drift control, reference tracking, and path planning. Research associated with the first group focuses on gaining a better understanding of the behavior of the car near the friction limit for designing safety control systems that try to prevent loss-of-control accidents. By analyzing the nonlinear car model, it can be shown that steady state motions corresponding to drifting can be generated, see e.g. [9] and [10]. As these approaches are not designed for trajectory tracking, the controlled car drifts in a circle, which represents a steady state drift equilibrium.

Reference tracking controllers usually are designed to operate the vehicle within the linear tire force region for maximum safety and robustness. Approaches based on NMPC, which allows one to incorporate the latter constraint in a systematic manner, deal with the nonlinearities of the model either directly by a nonlinear programming (NLP) solver [11], or use LTV [12] or piece-wise affine (PWA) approxima- tions [13], resulting in a convex quadratic program (QP) or a mixed-integer QP, respectively. Approaches without optimization in real-time include nonlinear robust control [14] and flatness-based control [15], which however lack the ability to incorporate constraints. One approach that is explicitly designed for operating with saturated tire forces is [8], where the center of percussion (CoP) is used to design a state feedback steering controller for reference tracking. At the CoP, the rear tire forces do not influence the dynamics by definition, which allows for a simple linear steering controller.

In order to avoid obstacles, reference tracking schemes rely on a higher-level path planner. A simple point mass model in the high-level path planner is used in [16] to limit the computational complexity. This can be problematic if the generated trajectories are infeasible with respect to the car’s physical dynamics, which can lead to preventable collisions [17]. The latter reference suggests to use a library of steady- state movements (trims) with parametrizable length, which are generated from a more complex dynamical model, and to connect them by maneuvers which allow the transition from one trim to another, similar to the idea of [18]. This path planning has the advantage that it generates feasible reference trajectories for the low level tracking controller, and that drifting trims can be included to increase the agility of the car. However, the resulting optimization problem is a mixed-integer program that is too complex to be solved within the typical sampling times on embedded platforms. Consequently, the approach is not well suited for real-time autonomous racing.

In order to avoid relying on the feasibility of the path planner, one-level approaches have been in- vestigated e.g. in [19], where optimal trajectories and the associated open-loop control inputs for rally racing maneuvers are calculated numerically in simulation. In [16], obstacle avoidance is incorporated into the tracking controller by using an additional cost term that penalizes coming too close to the obstacle. However, the controller is reported to perform worse than its two-level counterpart, especially if the car has to diverge from the reference trajectory. A one-level approach similar to [16] is studied in [20] in simulation, where obstacle avoidance is incorporated into the problem formulation by using a spatial reformulation and imposing constraints on the transformed variables. While in [19], [16] the solution to the NLP is obtained by a standard nonlinear solver with prohibitively long solve times, [20] uses real-time iterations [21] to achieve the low computation times needed for a real-time implementation. However, it is assumed that there is only one side where the obstacle can be overtaken, which may not be the case in practical racing situations.

An interesting alternative to optimization-based methods are sampling-based methods. For example, rapidly exploring random trees (RRTs) have been investigated in [22] and [23] to generate time optimal trajectories through a 180◦ curve. The advantage is that such algorithms tend to quickly find feasible trajectories. In [23], the differential flatness of the system is exploited to speed up the convergence of the algorithm, generating obstacle-free trajectories even in complex situations. However, the reported computation times are not yet low enough to allow for a real-time implementation.

### B. Contribution

In this paper, we describe two novel autonomous, optimization-based racing controllers that incorporate obstacle avoidance, track constraints, actuator limitation and the ability for controlled drift in a systematic and straightforward way. Real-time feasibility at 50Hz sampling rate is demonstrated in experimental results with fast RC cars. To the best knowledge of the authors, this is the first implementation of autonomous racing controllers with obstacle avoidance on an experimental testbed.

The fundamental idea of both approaches is to use a receding horizon controller, which maximizes progress on the track within the horizon as a performance measure. This is closely related to a time optimality criterion and allows for a systematic incorporation of obstacles and other constraints. It is particularly effective for overtaking opponents, as our controllers seek for a progress-optimal solution around the obstacles. In order to deal with track constraints and obstacle avoidance situations, we represent the feasible set for the position of the car at any time instance by a slab defined by two parallel linear inequalities. This ensures tractability of the subproblems by convex programming on one hand, and incorporation of track and obstacle constraints in a systematic manner on the other hand. To deal with non-convex situations such as overtaking an obstacle on the left or right, a high-level corridor planning algorithm supplies a set of appropriate convex constraints to the controllers. This constraint set is the result of a shortest path problem solved by dynamic programming.

The first, hierarchical control approach presented in this paper is in principle similar to [17], but its complexity is low enough to be fully implemented in real-time. Our path planner also uses trims, but only one is selected for the whole prediction horizon from a set of trajectories, which represent steady-state cornering conditions of the nonlinear model, gridded for velocity and steering angle. The path planner selects the trajectory with the largest progress that does not leave the track or hits any obstacle. Moving obstacles can inherently be dealt with, as new trims are generated every sampling time. A low level nonlinear reference tracking MPC controller tracks the selected trim, as in [17], but we additionally use obstacle avoidance constraints as described above, which turns out to be very effective in practice.

The second controller is based on a model predictive contouring control (MPCC) formulation [1], [2], combining path generation and path tracking into one problem. The MPCC essentially plans a progress- optimal path by taking into account the (nonlinear) projection of the vehicle’s position onto the center line. The resulting controller is able to plan and to follow a path which is similar to the time-optimal path in [19] when the horizon is chosen long enough.

Both NMPC problems are approximated locally by linearizing the continuous nonlinear system dynamics around a state trajectory to obtain an LTV model. In the hierarchical approach, we linearize around the trajectory obtained from the path planner, while in the one-level approach the linearization points are given by the shifted trajectory from the previous sampling time. We then discretize by the matrix exponential, and solve the resulting quadratic program (QP) by a tailored interior point solver, generated by FORCES [3], [4]. The computation time of the solvers scale linearly with the horizon length, hence we make use of long horizons of up to 40 time steps in the MPCC, for example. After the QP has been solved, the first control input is applied to the system, and the process is repeated at the next sampling time. This approach for solving the NMPC problems corresponds to the basic version of the real-time iterations from [21].

## II. CAR MODEL

### A. Bicycle Model

### B. Stationary Velocity Analysis

## III. AUTONOMOUS RACING CONTROL