---
title: "[Paper Review] Approximate Sequential Optimization for Informative Path Planning"
excerpt: Joshua Ott, Mykel J. Kochenderfer, Stephen Boyd
categories:
  - paperreview
---
## Abstract

- We consider the problem of finding an informative path through a graph, given initial and terminal nodes and a given maximum path length.
- We assume that a linear noise corrupted measurement is taken at each node of an underlying unknown vector that we wish to estimate.
- The informativeness is measured by the reduction in uncertainty in our estimate, evaluated using several metrics. We present a convex relaxation for this informative path planning problem, which we can readily solve to obtain a bound on the possible performance. We develop an approximate sequential method where the path is constructed segment by segment through dynamic programming. This involves solving an orienteering problem, with the node reward acting as a surrogate for informativeness, taking the first step, and then repeating the process.
- The method scales to very large problem instances and achieves performance not too far from the bound produced by the convex relaxation. We also demonstrate our method’s ability to handle adaptive objectives, multimodal sensing, and multi-agent variations of the informative path planning problem.

## 1. Introduction

Consider an agent that is tasked with exploring a large unknown environment. The agent must collect measurements to build an accurate representation of the state of the environ- ment. The agent has a finite set of resources and is therefore constrained by time, battery life, or fuel capacity. As a result, it must plan a path to maximize the amount of infor- mation acquired from its noisy observations while remaining within the allowed resource budget. Given a maximum path length Lmax, the objective is to compute a path of length at most Lmax that maximizes the gain in information over the prediction variables. This is known as the informative path planning (IPP) problem and involves choosing a subset of sensing locations from the environment. The IPP problem can be seen as an extension of the sensor selection problem where future sensing locations are constrained by previous sensing locations. These additional path feasibility constraints increase the complexity of the problem, making it more challenging than the original sensor selection problem [1, 2].

A variety of real-world problems can be formulated as IPP problems, such as planetary rover exploration, search and rescue, and environmental monitoring. IPP merges the fields of robotics, artificial intelligence, and spatial data analysis. It carries substantial implications for a myriad of applications, where efficient data collection from a potentially hazardous or inaccessible environment is essential. However, the problem presents significant challenges. The IPP problem is known to be NP-hard due to its combinatorial nature with a vast search space for potential solutions [3]. Successful solutions typically require reasoning about the entire trajectory; myopic approaches often result in inefficient paths, causing the agent to repeat exploration of the same areas without using the full resource budget [4].

The IPP problem is closely related to the optimal design of experiments and sensor selection. Joshi and Boyd presented a convex relaxation of the sensor selection problem that involves choosing a set of k sensor measurements, from a set of m possible or potential sensor measurements, that minimizes the error in estimating some parameters [1]. The sensor selection problem is closely related to the IPP problem. However, sensor selection does not consider the movement constraints of the agent so the rounding approach presented by Joshi and Boyd is not directly applicable to the IPP problem. Krause et al. also considered the sensor placement problem and presented several approximate solution methods [5]. Singh et al. introduced an approximate algorithm for both the single and multi-agent IPP problems using Gaussian processes as the underlying environment model [6]. Strawser and Williams used hybrid search to solve risk-bound goal-directed planning problems, focusing on complex 3D environments and the modeling of trajectory risk [7]. While B ̈ackstr ̈om et al. focused on approximability for cost-optimal planning [8].
Dutta et al. introduced a mixed-integer formulation for the discrete IPP problem in random fields and aimed to optimize over the collected measurement subset and all linear estimators [2]. The approach presented by Dutta et al. can produce globally optimal solu- tions on relatively small graphs; however, the mixed integer program fails to scale to larger graph sizes which is often necessary in practice for planning at higher resolutions [2]. Hitz et al. used an evolutionary strategy to optimize a parameterized path in continuous space [9]. Bostr ̈om-Rost et al. formulated the problem as a mixed integer semidefinite program and used a receding horizon optimal control approach based on the information filter to produce a solution [10]. Song et al. used a receding horizon control strategy with a discrete set of motion primitives to evaluate the objective and then select the best candidate, execute the action, update the Gaussian process belief, and then replan [11].

Another common approach is to formulate the IPP problem as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP). Marchant et al. formulated the IPP problem as a POMDP and solved it using sequential Bayesian optimization through Monte Carlo tree search with upper confidence bound for trees (MCTS-UCT) [12]. This work has been ex- tended to modify the reward function for achieving monitoring behavior that exploits areas with high gradients, and for additional reasoning over continuous action spaces through Bayesian optimization [13, 14]. Fern ́andez et al., on the other hand, used partially observ- able Monte Carlo planning (POMCP) with Gaussian process beliefs for estimating quantiles of the underlying world state [15]. Their methodology proposes sample locations for a team of scientists to investigate following their exploration completion. Ru ̈ckin et al. presented a hybrid approach that combines tree search with an offline-learned neural network to predict informative sensing actions [16]. Ott et al. focused on the multimodal sensing extension of the IPP problem where the agent has multiple sensors to choose from and solved it with tree search [17].

These approaches all produce reasonable solutions on graphs with a relatively small number of nodes; however, they struggle to scale to large graphs with higher resolution which is necessary for many real-world applications. Additionally, MIPs are not well-suited to handle adaptive objectives where the objective function depends on the history of mea- surement values received. Our results demonstrate that our approach is able to scale to larger problem instances for the IPP problem, while also handling adaptive objectives such as the expected improvement metric, and accounting for multimodal sensing and multi- agent variations of the IPP problem [17, 18]. We directly compare our approach with those of Dutta et al. and Ott et al. [2, 17].

The key contributions of this work are the following:

1. We present a convex relaxation of the informative path planning problem.
2. We introduce an approximate sequential optimization solution that outperforms ex- isting IPP methods.
3. We provide a bound on the optimal solution to the IPP problem and show that while our method produces a suboptimal solution, often the optimality gap is small.
4. We extend our method to handle adaptive objectives such as the expected improve- ment metric, as well as other variations of the IPP problem including multimodal sensing and multi-agent scenarios [19].
5. We release our implementation as an open-source software package for use and further development by the community.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 presents the IPP problem, Section 3 formulates the IPP problem with an exact mixed integer convex formulation and presents a convex relaxation, Section 4 introduces our approximate sequential path opti- mization solution, Section 5 extends our method to consider additional adaptive objectives and multimodal sensing variations of the original problem, Section 6 presents our empirical results along with a bound on the optimality of our approximate solution, and Section 7 concludes our work.
