---
title: "[Optimization]Stein Variational Gradient Descent"
excerpt: 
categories:
  - optimization
---
## Abstract

- We propose a general purpose variational inference algorithm that forms a natural counterpart of gradient descent for optimization.
- Our method iteratively trans- ports a set of particles to match the target distribution, by applying a form of functional gradient descent that minimizes the KL divergence.

## 1 Introducction

Bayesian inference provides a powerful tool for modeling complex data and reasoning under uncer- tainty, but casts a long standing challenge on computing intractable posterior distributions. Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) has been widely used to draw approximate posterior samples, but is often slow and has difficulty accessing the convergence. Variational inference instead frames the Bayesian inference problem into a deterministic optimization that approximates the target distribution with a simpler distribution by minimizing their KL divergence. This makes variational methods efficiently solvable by using off-the-shelf optimization techniques, and easily applicable to large datasets (i.e., "big data") using the stochastic gradient descent trick [e.g., 1]. In contrast, it is much more challenging to scale up MCMC to big data settings [see e.g., 2, 3].

Meanwhile, both the accuracy and computational cost of variational inference critically depend on the set of distributions in which the approximation is defined. Simple approximation sets, such as these used in the traditional mean field methods, are too restrictive to resemble the true posterior distributions, while more advanced choices cast more difficulties on the subsequent optimization tasks. For this reason, efficient variational methods often need to be derived on a model-by-model basis, causing is a major barrier for developing general purpose, user-friendly variational tools applicable for different kinds of models, and accessible to non-ML experts in application domains.

In this work, we propose a new general purpose variational inference algorithm which can be treated as a natural counterpart of gradient descent for full Bayesian inference (see Algorithm 1). Our algorithm uses a set of particles for approximation, on which a form of (functional) gradient descent is performed to minimize the KL divergence and drive the particles to fit the true posterior distribution. Our algorithm has a simple form, and can be applied whenever gradient descent can be applied. In fact, it reduces to gradient descent for MAP when using only a single particle, while automatically turns into a full Bayesian approach with more particles.

Underlying our algorithm is a new theoretical result that connects the derivative of KL divergence w.r.t. smooth variable transforms and a recently introduced kernelized Stein discrepancy [8–10], which allows us to derive a closed form solution for the optimal smooth perturbation direction that gives the steepest descent on the KL divergence within the unit ball of a reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS). This new result is of independent interest, and can find wide application in machine learning and statistics beyond variational inference.

## 2 Background

## 3 Variational Inference Using Smooth Transforms

Variational Inference approximates the target distribution $p(x)$ using a simpler distribution $q^*(x)$ found in a predeined set $Q = q(x)$ of distrubutions by minimizing the KL divergence, that is,

$$
q^* = \argmin_{q \in Q} KL (q || p) = \argmin_{q \in Q} \mathbb{E}_q [\log q(x)] - \mathbb{E}_q [\log \bar{p}(x)] + \log Z
$$

The choice of set Q is critical and defines different types of variational inference methods. The best set Q should strike a balance between

- i) accuracy, broad enough to closely approximate a large class of target distributions,
- ii) tractability, consisting of simple distributions that are easy for inference, and 
- iii) solvability so that the subsequent KL minimization problem can be efficiently solved.