---
title: "[Paper Review] DCGN"
excerpt: "Hierarchical Video Frame Sequence Representation with Deep Convolutional Graph Network"
categories:
  - paperreview
---
## ABSTRACT

- High accuracy video label prediction (classification) models are attributed to large scale data. These data could be frame feature se- quences extracted by a pre-trained convolutional-neural-network, which promote the efficiency for creating models. Unsupervised solutions such as feature average pooling, as a simple label-independent parameter-free based method, has limited ability to represent the video. While the super- vised methods, like RNN, can greatly improve the recognition accuracy. However, the video length is usually long, and there are hierarchical re- lationships between frames across events in the video, the performance of RNN based models are decreased.
- In this paper, we proposes a novel video classification method based on a deep convolutional graph neu- ral network(DCGN). The proposed method utilize the characteristics of the hierarchical structure of the video, and performed multi-level fea- ture extraction on the video frame sequence through the graph network, obtained a video representation reflecting the event semantics hierarchi- cally. We test our model on YouTube-8M Large-Scale Video Understand- ing dataset, and the result outperforms RNN based benchmarks.

## 1. INTRODUCTION

Nearly 80% of the data on the Internet are images and videos. Research on ana- lyzing, understanding and mining these multimedia data has drawn a significant amount of attention from both academia and industry. Labeling or classify- ing videos is one of the most important requirements, and challenges remained to be solved. Googles YouTube-8M team introduced a large multi-label video classification dataset which composed of nearly 8 million videos-500K hours of video-annotated with a vocabulary of 4800 visual entities[1]. They used the state- of-the-art Inception-v3 network[2] pre-trained on ImageNet to extract frame fea- tures at one-frame-per-second, providing reliable data supporting for large-scale video understanding. The key task is modeling the long sequence of frame fea- tures. The popular methods are LSTM (Long Short-Term Memory Networks)[3], GRU (Gated recurrent units)[4], DBoF(Deep Bag of Frame Pooling)[1], etc.

이 작업에서는 비디오 프레임과 샷 간의 복잡한 관계를 탐색하고 비디오 전반에 걸쳐 계층적 의미 추상화를 수행하는 새로운 깊은 합성곱 그래프 기반 프레임 특성 시퀀스 모델링 방법을 제안합니다. 약 5백만 개의 비디오와 3862개의 레이블을 포함하는 YouTube8M-2018 데이터셋을 기반으로 평가를 실시했습니다. 제공된 프레임 수준 Inception-v3 특성을 사용하여 모델을 훈련했고, 결과는 우리 모델이 RNN 기반 방법을 능가하는 것을 보여줍니다.

## 2. RELATED WORK

Video feature sequence classification is essentially the the task of aggregating video features, that is, to aggregate N D-dimensional features into one D′- dimensional feature by mining statistical relationships between these N fea- tures. The aggregated D′-dimensional feature is a highly concentrated embed- ding, making the classifier easy to mapping the visual embedding space into the label semantic space. It is common using recurrent neural networks, such as LSTM (Long Short-Term Memory Networks)[3][5][6] and GRU (Gated recurrent units)[4][7], both are the state-of-the-art approaches for many sequence modeling tasks. However, the hidden state of RNN is dependent on previous steps, which prevent parallel computations. Moreover, LSTM or GRU use gate to solve RNN gradient vanish problem, but the sigmoid in the gates still cause gradient decay over layers in depth. It has been shown that LSTM has difficulties in converging when sequence length increase[8].There also exist end-to-end trainable order-less aggregation methods, such as DBoF(Deep Bag of Frame Pooling)[1].

## 3. Proposed Method

In this paper, we propose a convolutional graph based video representation method for a sequence of video frame features. The main idea is that video is a hierarchical data structure, composed of events, scenes, shots, super-frames and frames. Additionally, the relations between frames, and the relations between shots are more complex than the order of a sequence. Consider an example se- quence of cooking show as shown in Fig. 1, frames containing same targets are not continuous, and distributed in various timestamps, as well as the events and shots. We model the video frame sequence, shot, and event hierarchically by a deep convolution graph Network (DCGN). It gradually abstracts informa- tion from frame level to video level by convolution and information propagating through graph, and finally generates a global representation for further classifi- cation. The method is shown in Fig. 2.

## 5. Conclusion

In this work, we propose a novel sequence representation method DCGN for video classification. One layer in DCGN is composed of graph pooling, nodes convolution and nodes feature propagation. The problem of representing com- plex relationships between frames or shots is addressed by applying this graph based network hierarchically across the frame sequence. Based on the quanti- tative results in Section 4, the proposed method DCGN outperform the other alternatives such as LSTM and GRU.
