---
title: "ForzaETH"
excerpt: Zurich, Switzerland
categories:
  - paperreview
---
## Abstract

Autonomous racing in robotics combines high-speed dynamics with the necessity for re- liability and real-time decision-making. While such racing pushes software and hardware to their limits, many existing full-system solutions necessitate complex, custom hardware and software, and usually focus on Time-Trials rather than full unrestricted Head-to-Head racing, due to financial and safety constraints. This limits their reproducibility, making advancements and replication feasible mostly for well-resourced laboratories with compre- hensive expertise in mechanical, electrical, and robotics fields. Researchers interested in the autonomy domain but with only partial experience in one of these fields, need to spend significant time with familiarization and integration. The ForzaETH Race Stack addresses this gap by providing an autonomous racing software platform designed for F1TENTH, a 1:10 scaled Head-to-Head autonomous racing competition, which simplifies replication by using commercial off-the-shelf hardware. This approach enhances the competitive aspect of autonomous racing and provides an accessible platform for research and development in the field. The ForzaETH Race Stack is designed with modularity and operational ease of use in mind, allowing customization and adaptability to various environmental conditions, such as track friction and layout. Capable of handling both Time-Trials and Head-to-Head racing, the stack has demonstrated its effectiveness, robustness, and adaptability in the field by winning the official F1TENTH international competition multiple times.

[GITHUB](https://github.com/ForzaETH/race_stack)

## 1. Introduction

## 2. Related Works

## 3. System Overview

### 3.1 F1TENTH Hardware Architecture

### 3.2 ForzaETH Race Stack Architecture

Fig. 3 illustrates the ForzaETH Race Stack, a software architecture developed to implement the See-Think- Act paradigm [Siegwart et al., 2011], ensuring a structured and coherent approach to autonomous racing. The architecture emphasizes the interaction and connectivity among various autonomy modules and hardware components, aiming to ensure efficient vehicle operation in a Head-to-Head racing environment.

The architecture not only describes the functionalities of each module but also illustrates how upstream tasks can have cascading effects on subsequent autonomy modules, which is vital in scenarios demanding real-time decision-making and adaptability. For instance, even with an optimal controller, the robot will not operate effectively if its upstream state estimation task performs poorly. Thus, each part of the pipeline is meticulously adapted and configured to work holistically within the ForzaETH Race Stack.

While the architecture of Fig. 3 draws inspiration from the work presented in [Betz et al., 2022,Siegwart et al., 2011], it emphasizes the criticality of state estimation as a standalone module, underscoring its significant influence on all downstream autonomy modules.

The depicted autonomy modules of the race stack have been fully implemented in Robot Operating System (ROS)1 Noetic using Python and C++. At the time of writing an additional ROS2 Humble version is being implemented for future-proving and open-sourcing. From a design philosophy point of view, the following is adhered to: C++ where necessary, Python where possible. Latency critical nodes necessitate the speed and performance of C++, while the development simplicity and efficiency of Python can be leveraged otherwise. Using the ROS ecosystem, many open-source robotics tools, algorithms, and sensor-drivers can be purposed for the race stack.

### 3.3 Simulation Environment

A minimalistic and lightweight ROS simulation environment is utilized within the development of the proposed race stack. The simulator is slightly modified from the original F1TENTH simulation environ- ment [O’Kelly et al., 2019]. The interfacing between the simulator and the physical system has been designed to be identical, such that seamless switching between the simulation and the physical system is enabled. The simulation model corresponds to a dynamic bicycle model, which can be selected to use either linear or Pacejka tire dynamics, as in [Althoff et al., 2017]. When using the race stack in the simulation, the ar- chitectural overview of Fig. 3 is nearly identical, with the exception that State-Estimation is replaced with the ground-truth state forwarding from the simulator, as well as the sensors and actuators being provided by the simulator as well. This simulation environment allows for testing, verifying logic, and executability throughout the development process. Yet, due to the simulator’s lightweight and simplicity, a considerable Sim-to-Real gap exists, hence extrapolation of racing performance to the physical domain is not advisable, and the simulator is mostly advised for debugging purposes [Zhang et al., 2024].

### 3.4 Robotic Conventions

Within this work, the ROS right-hand-rule coordinate convention is utilized, as in ROS Enhancement Pro- posal (REP)-103, following convention and units as in [Foote and Purvis, 2010]. The coordinate frames, as depicted in Fig. 4a, are map, base link, imu, and laser. The body frame attached to the car is the base link frame, situated in the middle of the car’s rear axle. Two sensor frames are then also rigidly attached to the car, the laser frame, located at the laser sensor, and the imu frame, located at the VESC’s position, where the IMU is located. Rigid transformations link these frames to the body frame, and, when- ever necessary, the sensor data is transformed to the base link frame before being used. The map frame is the inertial frame of reference and, in this frame, (x,y) represent the positional and Cartesian coordinates of the car, and (s, d) represent the Frenet coordinates, as explained in Section 3.4.1.

The terms vx and vy denote the longitudinal and lateral velocities, respectively, in the base link frame, whereas vs and vd, respectively denote the components of the velocity tangential and perpendicular to our reference trajectory, i.e. the velocity in Frenet coordinates. To distinguish between the ego vehicle and an opponent vehicle, the subscripts ego and opp are used respectively. For example, the tangential velocity of the ego and the opponent vehicle are vs, ego and vs, opp. When this subscript is omitted, ego is assumed. Within this work robotic naming conventions such as scan, pose, and odom are used. These conventions adhere to ROS standards and are defined as in Table 4.

#### 3.4.1 Frenet Frame Adoption

A central feature of the proposed race stack is its extensive utilization of the curvilinear Frenet-Serret frame, as detailed in [Werling et al., 2010,V ́azquez et al., 2020b]. The Frenet frame establishes a coordinate system relative to a designated reference path. In the context of our system, this reference path corresponds to the global racing line, further discussed in Section 6.2. Consequently, Cartesian coordinates (x,y) can be mapped to Frenet coordinates (s,d), where s denotes progression along the racing line, and d signifies the orthogonal distance from the racing line. It is noteworthy that the s coordinate is cyclical, wrapping upon completing a lap, necessitating careful management of the path wrapping. The d coordinate is defined such that values to the right of the racing line are negative, while those to the left are positive. A representation of the car’s position in both Cartesian and Frenet coordinates is available in Fig. 4.

The adoption of the Frenet frame offers several advantages in specific contexts. Tasks such as determining a point’s position relative to the racetrack, describing motion models in relation to the reference racing line, or generating potential evasion waypoints that align with the racing line are considerably simplified within the Frenet frame compared to the Cartesian system. Succinctly, any computation involving spatial coordinates relative to the racing line benefits from the Frenet frame transformation. As such, the ForzaETH Race Stack places significant emphasis on simple and efficient transformations between Cartesian and curvilinear coordinates, ensuring seamless and simplified operation.

## 4. State Estimation

In this chapter, we detail the methodologies and algorithms employed in the ForzaETH Race Stack to extract accurate pose (position and orientation) and longitudinal velocity from the raw sensor readings. This involves <span style="color: #2D3748; background-color:#fff5b1;">sensor fusion of data from LiDAR, IMU, and wheel-odometry</span> (obtained through ERPM data) to achieve a reliable and high-fidelity representation of the vehicle’s state, which is indispensable for executing complex racing maneuvers at the car’s limit of friction.

The task of state estimation is divided into localization and velocity estimation. The pipeline is depicted in Fig. 5. The sensor inputs used are linear accelerations and angular velocities from the IMU, a 2D laser scan from the LiDAR, and ERPM obtained wheel-odometry from the VESC motor controller. The ERPM odometry is computed through the measured current and voltage within the VESC motor controller and it is combined with the commanded steering angle to estimate the wheel odometry using the implementation of the F1TENTH platform presented in [O’Kelly et al., 2020b], which can be significantly affected by tire-slip.

Within the State Estimation module, this odometry signal is then fused with IMU data in the Odom Filter module (more details in Section 4.2). This first filtering step is crucial, as not only are sufficiently accu- rate velocity estimates required for the control algorithm but [Lim et al., 2024] has also shown that later localization modules are significantly sensitive to the accuracy of the odometry prior. The filtered odometry signal is then fed to the localization algorithm, which is either the SLAM-based Cartographer [Hess et al., 2016] or the MCL-based SynPF [Lim et al., 2024]. The localization algorithms are mutually exclusive and both of them are described in Section 4.4 and evaluated later in Section 4.5. The reason for having two mutually exclusive methods for localization is that both techniques have fundamentally different operation characteristics. The SynPF MCL-based localization tends to be more robust towards wheel-slippage than the Cartographer SLAM-based approach, yet Cartographer performs smoother and more accurately under nominal conditions [Lim et al., 2024]. Having both methods available underscores the strategic advantage of the ForzaETH Race Stack, enabling adaptability and optimization of race strategy based on specific track conditions and requirements. Lastly, the final car state is aggregated merging the localization pose from Lo- calization and the velocity signal from Odom Filter. Localization is carried out in a pre-mapped racetrack, and the mapping procedure is further described in Section 4.3.

### 4.2 Odometry Filter - Extended Kalman Filter

Velocity state estimates are generated using an approach based on the EKF [McElhoe, 1966,Moore and Stouch, 2014]. It fuses the wheel odometry and the data provided by the IMU sensor. This aids the longitu- dinal and lateral velocity estimation for the robot in situations where tire slip occurs, as the accelerometer data from the IMU can be leveraged to compensate for this within the EKF. The EKF is integrated through the robot localization package [Moore and Stouch, 2014]. The estimates are generated at a rate of 50 Hz, corresponding to the IMU and wheel-odometry update frequency.

The EKF model consists of an omnidirectional, three-dimensional, point-mass motion model. The state X and the discrete-time transfer function f(X) used in the library are defined in the Appendix A.2. To account for the fact that the F1TENTH setup can be considered two-dimensional, the two d mode parameter is then set to true, which effectively enforces the measurements of the states z, φ, θ, z ̇, φ ̇, θ ̇, z ̈ to zero, the respective covariances to 10−6 and the states to 1 (which have then to be neglected).

The remaining states that are then used by this approach are the longitudinal velocity, lateral velocity, and the yaw rate. However, if no lateral acceleration data is supplied to the motion model, the vehicle’s lateral velocity is assumed to be 0ms−1, which is equivalent to assuming that the vehicle experiences no lateral slip. While more vehicle-specific motion models have been investigated, this approach was observed to be more robust to significantly varying track conditions than the implemented vehicle models and performed sufficiently well under realistic driving conditions.

As outlined in the documentation of the robot localization package [Moore and Stouch, 2014], the a posteriori update step of the EKF can be configured by selecting the specific measurement sources from each sensor or input to be considered. The fusion configuration is determined experimentally using ground-truth motion capture data and qualitative observations, as described in Section 4.5. In the selected configuration, the EKF fuses the IMU measurements of angular velocity, heading, and the full twist stemming from the wheel odometry. Note that linear accelerations observed by the IMU sensor are not considered (linear acceleration of the ERPM-based wheel-odometry is however used), as they were observed to experience significant noise due to shaking and may be sensitive to the exact positioning and orientation of the IMU sensor on the car. Nevertheless, the configuration of EKF inputs can be changed quickly and easily to maximize the estimation accuracy given the external conditions.

The covariances associated with the individual measurements are determined at their respective sources and are used in forming the measurement update of the EKF. In this implementation, the covariances of the IMU data and the control odometry are predetermined and set to be static. Numerical values can be found in the Appendix A.1.1.

### 4.3 Mapping

Mapping is a fundamental part of autonomous racing, serving as the foundation for both localization and trajectory planning [Betz et al., 2022]. The proposed ForzaETH Race Stack uses a pose-graph optimization SLAM method, Cartographer [Hess et al., 2016] to create an initial map of the racetrack.

In a race setting, mapping is conducted during the free practice session. The occupancy grid produced is subsequently used for the computation of a global trajectory, detailed in section Section 6.2. The most relevant tuning parameters for Cartographer are listed in Appendix A.1.1.

### 4.4 Localization

Accurate localization is crucial to the trickle-down effects on the rest of the ForzaETH Race Stack. Therefore, the proposed race stack supports two mutually exclusive options for localization to suit varying conditions:

I Cartographer: A pose-graph optimization SLAM method [Hess et al., 2016]. This localization method yields the most accurate and smoothest pose estimate, given high-quality odometry input data. This localization technique yields high accuracy localization up to Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) of 0.0535 m, as long as the racecar experiences relatively low levels of tire slip, such that the wheel odometry signal is sufficiently accurate, as further demonstrated in [Lim et al., 2024].

II SynPF: A high-performance MCL-based Particle Filter (PF) localization technique optimized for rac- ing, specifically developed for the ForzaETH Race Stack [Lim et al., 2024]. As opposed to Cartographer, this method yields slightly less accurate pose estimates with higher jitter, as can be seen in Fig. 10. However, this method is highly robust against low-quality odometry input. In a racing environment with high levels of wheel slip, SynPF is a highly effective localization alternative. Furthermore, SynPF is computationally lighter, resulting in a Central Processing Unit (CPU) utilization from 30% to 50% lower as compared to the Cartographer counterpart, as from Section 8.1.1, Section 8.2.1.

Given the contrasting strengths of each localization method (pure performance versus robustness), human-operators can decide which one to use given the conditions at each race event. A qualitative example to assess the different performance characteristics between Cartographer and SynPF given high- and low- quality odometry, i.e. wheel-slip, input is illustrated in Fig. 6 and Fig. 7. Specifically, Fig. 7 demonstrates the catastrophic failure case of Cartographer SLAM, which could not handle the compromised odometry signal, leading to a collision against the track’s right barrier, as evidenced by the LiDAR scans. In contrast, SynPF was able to accurately localize using the same dataset. As in a racing scenario, one can not rely on a motion- capture system to be available, lap time is used as a proxy measurement for localization accuracy, as from a holistic viewpoint of the race stack, the improvement of localization yields overall better performance. Hence both Cartographer and SynPF algorithms were tuned to minimize the lap time in a Time-Trials scenario over multiple maps. The utilized parameters are listed in Appendix A.1.1.

### 4.5 State Estimation Results

## 5. Opponent Estimation

## 6. Planning

Planning is a core robotic task within the See-Think-Act cycle [Siegwart et al., 2011]. The planning module leverages environmental data from the Perception module and ego-information from the State Estimation module to plan efficient and effective trajectories, adapting dynamically to environmental changes. These planned trajectories will then be supplied to the downstream Control task for execution.

For F1TENTH, this translates into two primary objectives: the computation of an optimal racing line, which can be computed offline, and to react to opponents during Head-to-Head races. This involves strategic planning for collision avoidance and executing overtaking maneuvers, ensuring both competitiveness and safety on the track.

### 6.1 Architecture

Fig. 14 depicts the architecture of the Planning module within the proposed ForzaETH Race Stack. The Planning module is subdivided into two submodules: a global and a local planner. The global planner leverages the occupancy grid, generated during the free practice session, and yields a performant racing line for the given track. The global planner operates offline, solely attributed to the calculation of a global trajectory that is stored for later use in the race. On the other hand, the local planner employs the global trajectory as a reference racing line and, based on it, generates a local trajectory designed to avoid obstacles, and thus allows the car to overtake an opponent.

### 6.2 Global Planner

The global planner is based on the work presented in [Heilmeier et al., 2020]. Their work describes the planning of a minimum curvature trajectory using a quadratic optimization problem formulation. To optimize a global path around a racetrack, it is necessary to acquire the centerline and the corresponding track boundaries from the map.

The occupancy grid, generated by SLAM, can be interpreted as an image by transforming each cell into a pixel as illustrated in Fig. 15a. In the first step, the occupancy grid is binarized. Subsequently, the binarized image is smoothed with a morphological open filter [Bovik, 2009] to mitigate most of the LiDAR scans located outside of the track. Following this, the centerline is extracted from the filtered image using the morphological skeleton method [Kong and Rosenfeld, 1996]. The centerline, characterized by its angular shape, can pose challenges for path optimization due to abrupt directional changes. Therefore, the centerline is smoothed using a Savitzky-Golay filter [Orfanidis, 1995], and the resulting centerline is depicted in Fig. 15b. Finally, the centerline, in combination with the Watershed algorithm [Bertrand, 2005] is utilized to derive the racetrack and, consequently, the distances along the normal vector to the track boundaries, crucial information that, being in Frenet frame, allows us to efficiently compute the distance of a specific coordinate to the boundary. This is useful, for example, to evaluate if candidate trajectories are safely within the track boundaries or if detected obstacles are inside the racetrack.

For the computation of the global trajectory, we employ the global trajectory optimization tool presented in [Heilmeier et al., 2020]. The centerline points [xi,yi] and their corresponding distances to the track boundaries wtr,left,i,wtr,right,i serve as the input. The optimization method used is the iterative minimum curvature optimization. This approach iteratively applies the standard minimum curvature optimization to address linearization errors occurring in the conventional problem formulation. The objective of the minimum curvature optimization is to minimize the sum of the discrete squared curvature κ2i along the racing line with N points, which are interpolated through splines. Taking into account the vehicle width ...

Finally, to improve the tunability of the obtained racing line and handle mixed conditions such as floors with
different friction levels, multiple sectors along its length are sequentially defined, based on track-by-track
heuristics. Every i-th sector is then linked to a scaling parameter σsector ∈ [0,1], which then multiplies i
the speed of the global racing line, in order to scale it down. To ensure smooth transitions between the
sectors, linear interpolation is applied for a range of 1 m at the junction of the sectors. An example of such
sectors can be seen in Fig. 16. The sector scalers σsector can then be tuned, either by hand or automatically i
by means of Bayesian Optimization (BO). In this case, the technique is used to minimize a cost function which is a linear combination of lap time, racing line deviation, and minimum distance from the boundaries. The goal of the BO setup is therefore to find a mapping from the sector scalers to this cost function. The implementation is carried out with the BayesOpt4ROS package from [Fr ̈ohlich and Carron, 2021], and the specific acquisition function used is Expected Improvement (EI) [Jones et al., 1998], which was selected over the other implemented option Upper Confidence Bound (UCB) [Auer et al., 2002] after empirical assessments deemed it more sample efficient for our task, achieving faster performance when given the same amount of sample laps.

### 6.3 State Machine

Fig. 17 illustrates the devised state machine, with each state being physically represented on the vehicle through corresponding LED colors, thereby augmenting real-time visual feedback. This state machine is re- sponsible for orchestrating different high-level behaviors through the information obtained from the different autonomy modules and supply the Control module with the correct waypoints. A detailed explanation of the states, with conditions for switching formatted as <cond>, is provided below:
I GBFree: This state denotes an unobstructed global racing line, facilitating unimpeded trajectory tracking. GBFree denotes the GloBal racing line being free.
II Trailing: This state denotes when an opponent, denoted as opp, is proximal to the forthcoming racing line, and the longitudinal controller is activated to keep a constant gap, ensuring safe and close trailing behind the opponent and positioning the robot well for potential overtaking scenarios.
III Overtake: This state is engaged when the robot, after trailing an opponent, is presented with a valid overtaking solution (ot) by the local planner. The robot adheres to the proposed overtaking waypoints unless the solution becomes invalid, in which case it reverts to the Trailing state.
IV Reactive: Serving as a safety net, this state is activated when poor state estimation jeopardizes safe operation (ofc), prompting the robot to employ a reactive scheme via the FTG controller. The state can be exited as soon as control has been regained, i.e. is in-control (ic).

### 6.4 Local Planner

### 6.5 Planning Results

## 7. Control

## 8. Full Stack Performance

This chapter presents the performance analysis of the full ForzaETH Race Stack when all modules operate interconnected.

### 8.1 Time-Trials Performance

In racing, tuning the racing line to match specific environmental conditions, such as varying track surface friction coefficients, is crucial for achieving performant behavior. This necessitates adjusting the velocity profile of the racing line to align with the track layout and grip levels. The following tuning strategies, as outlined in Section 6.2, were employed to adjust the velocity scalers for each sector and refer to Fig. 28 and Fig. 29:


I Uniform Sector Scalers: Sectors are uniformly scaled by a constant factor, a quick but often sub- optimal method. Analysis shows a linear decrease in lap times up to a 78% scaler, then a minimum is obtained with a 79% scaler, yielding a lap time of μu = 6.34s. The lateral error increases slightly up to 70% then sharply rises from 5.0 cm to 16.1 cm in the 70 − 79% range, indicating competitive lap times but with increasing safety risks. Higher sector scalers, from 80% onwards, led to collisions with the boundaries.

II Bayesian Optimized Scalers: Individual sector tuning using BO optimizes lap time and lateral deviation but requires multiple uninterrupted laps for convergence, which might not be feasible during a racing scenario. The cost function was acquired averaging three consecutive laps, and ten iterations were run, for a total of 30 laps. The optimum was obtained with the parameters from the fifth iteration. This method yields an average lap time of μBO = 6.35s with a significantly lower lateral deviation of 10.2 cm, about 1.5 times lower than uniform tuning, enhancing safety and consistency. The trajectories and speed profile resulting from such a tuning procedure can be seen in Fig. 27.

III Hand-Tuned Scalers: Manual adjustment based on racing expertise offers a balance between uniform and BO tuning, achieving μHT = 6.31s and a lateral deviation of 13.24cm, a compromise between performance and safety. The trajectories and speed profile resulting from such tuning procedure can also be seen in Fig. 27, compared to the result from BO tuning.

The performance in Time-Trials was compared against other prevalent F1TENTH racing architectures to provide context for the proposed ForzaETH Race Stack:

I MAP: Uses the ForzaETH Race Stack with the MAP controller.

II PP: Employs the same stack but replaces the MAP controller with the widely used Pure Pursuit (PP) controller [Coulter, 1990], maintaining the same State Estimation, Opponent Estimation, and Planning setup.

III FTG: Utilizes the FTG controller [O ̈zdemir and Sezer, 2017], a reactive method that bypasses the See-Think-Act cycle, responding directly to LiDAR data by navigating through the largest perceived gap. While simpler and autonomous, it lacks the performance and adaptability of systems that adhere to the See-Think-Act paradigm.

#### 8.1.1 Computation - Time-Trials

Fig. 31, on the left-hand side, displays the latency histogram for the ForzaETH Race Stack during the Time-Trials phase. In this phase, Opponent Estimation and Planning modules are deactivated, under the presumption of an opponent-free track. Local planning is simplified to waypoint sampling from a pre- computed global racing line and can be neglected. Thus, State Estimation and Control are the primary contributors to the system’s latency. The latency associated with state estimation is measured separately for Cartographer-SLAM and SynPF, highlighting their distinct computational effects. The two different state estimation systems, however, are only used mutually exclusively. Under this setup, the race stack demonstrates a maximum average latency of 7.5ms, when using Cartographer-SLAM and evaluated on the Intel i5-10210U OBC.

Further, Fig. 31 on the right-hand side, showcases the CPU usage of the race stack, categorized by autonomy modules, based on data captured via the cpu monitor library [alspitz, 2023], which internally uses the psutil process monitoring library. It encompasses various non-autonomy related rosnodes such as sensor drivers and dynamic reconfigure tools, categorized under Sensors and Utils. In this setup, the race stack’s total CPU utilization reaches 268.23% or 169.41% for either the SLAM or the PF based localization backbone, on an Intel i5-10210U OBC (which can reach a maximum of 800% in terms of absolute CPU load). The State Estimation module is the primary computational load contributor, consuming 67.48% or 55.34% of the total racer stack CPU utilization (relative to the race stack computation) with Cartographer-SLAM or SynPF, respectively. In comparison, the Control module’s computational demand is relatively low, accounting for approximately 7% of the total race stack utilization.

### 8.2 Head-to-Head Performance

#### 8.2.1 Computation - Head-to-Head

## 9. Lessons Learned

- I Upstream Affects Downstream: The system architecture depicted in Fig. 3 demonstrates the inter- dependent nature of autonomy modules within the See-Think-Act cycle. The performance of upstream modules, particularly State Estimation, is critical as it lays the foundation for subsequent processing stages. For instance, inaccuracies in State Estimation will propagate errors into the Control module, regardless of the controller’s capabilities. This interdependence necessitates a holistic approach to the development and iterative refinement of all autonomy modules to enhance the overall system perfor- mance.
- II Balance Development Simplicity with Latency: While a lower code execution latency is always desired, it is essential to strike a balance between development simplicity and performance. Rapid prototyping with Python can identify where low latency is critical and if deemed necessary C++ for per- formance optimization can be used. This approach helps in efficiently allocating development resources and ensures that efforts are directed towards modules where speed is crucial, without unnecessarily complicating the system and the code maintenance.
- III Operational Simplicity: The dynamic and unpredictable nature of real-world racing events demands an autonomy stack designed for operational robustness. Unanticipated variables, such as variations in surface traction or environmental conditions affecting sensor performance, must be accounted for. The stack should facilitate straightforward parameter adjustments, providing operators with the ability to swiftly adapt to changes in the racing environment. A transparent system with tunable knobs that produce predictable changes is essential for rapid adaptation and informed decision-making through key parameters in autonomous racing scenarios.
- IV Importance of Testing: To build upon the previous point, figuring out the key parameters that yield full operational control of the robot, is only possible through thorough testing of the system. Testing is not only vital for obtaining technical insights but also for training the operational handling of the pit staff. Therefore, fully rehearsing the race can allow the operators to spot technical, as well as operational flaws, which are invaluable information to increase performance during the development phase as well as the race itself. Leverage the simulation environment for as much as possible, but evaluate racing performance only on the physical platform, to not be misled by the Sim-to-Real gap.
- Team Spirit

## 10. Conclusion and Future Work

The primary goal of this paper is to provide the first complete, robust, and accessible autonomy stack on CotS hardware for autonomous racing and research communities.
