---
title: "[Paper Review] Survey - Video Understanding"
excerpt: "Video Understanding with Large Language Models: A Survey"
categories:
  - paperreview
---
## Abstract

With the burgeoning growth of online video platforms and the escalating volume of video content, the demand for proficient video understanding tools has intensified markedly. Given the remarkable capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) in language and multimodal tasks, this survey provides a detailed overview of the recent advancements in video understanding harnessing the power of LLMs (Vid-LLMs). The emergent capabilities of Vid-LLMs are surprisingly advanced, particularly their ability for open-ended spatial-temporal reasoning combined with commonsense knowledge, suggesting a promising path for future video under- standing. We examine the unique characteristics and capabilities of Vid-LLMs, categorizing the approaches into four main types: LLM-based Video Agents, Vid-LLMs Pretraining, Vid-LLMs Instruction Tuning, and Hybrid Methods. Furthermore, this survey presents a comprehensive study of the tasks, datasets, and evaluation methodologies for Vid-LLMs. Additionally, it explores the expansive applications of Vid-LLMs across various domains, highlighting their remarkable scalability and versatility in real-world video understanding challenges. Finally, it summarizes the limitations of existing Vid-LLMs and outlines directions for future research. For more information, readers are recommended to visit the repository at https://github.com/yunlong10/Awesome-LLMs-for-Video-Understanding.

## 3. Vid-LLMs: Models

In the realm of multimodal large language models (MLLMs), we witness a remarkable unification of large language models with diverse data modalities, ranging from text to images, illustrating their extraordinary versatility and adaptability. These multimodal approaches not only enhance the models’ comprehension and reasoning capabilities but also set the stage for the next evolutionary leap in AI: the integration of LLMs with video understanding.
In light of the functionalities of LLMs in video understanding, we categorize Vid-LLM methods into the following categories: (1) LLM-based video agents, (2) Vid-LLM pretraining, (3) Vid-LLM instruction tuning, and (4) hybrid methods.

### 3.1 LLM-based Video Agents

This section explores different video agents based on LLMs, each with its unique approach to integrating multimodal data to enhance video analysis. Some use LLMs to leverage other foundational models as tools for solving tasks, while others utilize LLMs to process transcriptions from visual, auditory, and textual elements, showcasing their general-purpose task-solving capabilities in video comprehension.

Socratic Models[81]. Socratic Models formulate new tasks as a language-based exchange between pretrained models and other modules, all without the need for fresh training or finetuning. Socratic Models model video by integrating visual, auditory, and textual data through a series of structured, language-based prompts to various pretrained models, generating a language-based world-state history. It calculates a proximity metric based on the mean CLIP [107] attributes across all video frames and is benchmarked using the MSR-VTT dataset [121] for video-to-text retrieval. The model supports processing speech, but not sound from videos.

Video ChatCaptioner [116]. Video ChatCaptioner is a methodology aimed at producing detailed and comprehensive spatiotemporal descriptions of videos, proposed with a motivation to generate detailed and enriched video descriptions. It enhances video understanding through a dialogue between the ChatGPT [73] and BLIP-2 [110] models. ChatGPT functions as the questioner, tasked with selecting a frame from the sampled frames and generating questions. BLIP-2 responds by providing detailed answers to the inquiries based on the selected video frame. Subsequently, ChatGPT synthesizes the dialogue into comprehensive video captions. Video ChatCaptioner’s performance is evaluated on the MSVD [122] and WebVid [123] datasets. It does not support the processing of sound or speech.
VLog [84]. VLog (Video as a Long Document) utilizes a collection of pretrained models to record and interpret visual and audio information from videos. This suite includes BLIP2 for image captioning, GRIT [124] for region-based visual captioning, and Whisper for audio transcription. Whisper [114] is particularly adept at capturing and transcribing speech from videos into precise text, facilitating detailed audio analysis and improved accessibility. Afterwards, ChatGPT is employed to reason over the aggregated data, synthesizing and summarizing the information to enhance understanding and interaction with video content.
ChatVideo [83]. ChatVideo operates as a tracklet-centric multimodal video understanding system, integrating ChatGPT with various Video Foundation Models (ViFMs) to label video features, engage in user interactions, and tackle real-world video-related questions and scenarios. Employing a trajectory-focused methodology, ChatVideo interprets video data primarily through the fundamental unit of "tracklet" rather than the conventional frame-by-frame method. ChatVideo processes audio and speech by using Whisper and Wav2Vec 2.0. Overall, ChatVideo performs interactive and multimodal video understanding, enabling enriched video analysis through trackless-centric processing that includes consideration of appearance, motion, and audio aspects, as well as user-driven query interaction.
MM-Vid [85]. MM-VID is a system designed for advanced video understanding tasks, including Grounded Question-Answer, Multimodal Reasoning, Hour-Long Video Comprehension, Multi-Video Episodic Analysis, Character Identification, and Audio Description Generation. It models video content by initially using Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) and scene detection tools to process the video into clips, then employs GPT-4V [125] to generate detailed descriptions of these clips. These descriptions are integrated into a comprehensive script using GPT-4, facilitating a deep understanding of the video. For evaluation, MM-VID was tested on various datasets, including Ego4D [126] for egocentric videos and others featuring diverse video types. The system was fine-tuned and evaluated using these datasets to enhance its capabilities in processing and understanding video content. MM-VID supports the processing of sound and speech inputs, as evidenced by its use of ASR tools and its ability to generate audio descriptions, making videos accessible to individuals with visual impairments. This capability was demonstrated in a user study involving participants with and without visual impairments, using videos with different levels of speech and sound content.
MM-Narrator [86]. MM-Narrator is a GPT-4-based system designed for audio description (AD) generation for long-form videos. It handles video understanding tasks by combining multimodal information such as visual features, image captions, and character dialogues from subtitles. The model operates in an autoregressive manner, using a memory-augmented generation process for contextual coherence and character re-identification. It was evaluated on the MAD-eval dataset [100], focusing on AD generation performance. The system includes a complexity-based approach for multimodal in-context learning and a segment-based GPT-4 evaluator. MM-Narrator supports processing both visual and auditory inputs, including sound and speech, for comprehensive video understanding.